Add ZDT benchmark (optproblems) (#220)
optuna/optunahub-registry: package/benchmarks/zdt/README.md

---
author: Optuna team
title: The ZDT Problem Collection
description: The ZDT Problem Collection (Zitzler et al. 2000) is a widely-used benchmark suite for multi-objective optimization. This package is a wrapper of the optproblems library.
tags: [benchmark, multi-objective, ZDT, optproblems]
optuna_versions: [4.1.0]
license: MIT License
---

## Abstract

This package provides a wrapper of the [optproblems](https://www.simonwessing.de/optproblems/doc/index.html) library's ZDT test suite, which consists of 6 kinds of benchmark problems. For the details of the benchmark problems, please take a look at the original paper (Zitzler et al., 2000) in the reference section.

## APIs

### class `Problem(function_id: int, **kwargs: Any)`

- `function_id`: Function ID of the WFG problem in \[1, 9\].
- `kwargs`: Arbitrary keyword arguments, please refer to [the optproblems documentation](https://www.simonwessing.de/optproblems/doc/zdt.html) for more details.

#### Methods and Properties

- `search_space`: Return the search space.
  - Returns: `dict[str, optuna.distributions.BaseDistribution]`
- `directions`: Return the optimization directions.
  - Returns: `list[optuna.study.StudyDirection]`

> - `__call__(trial: optuna.Trial)`: Evaluate the objective function and return the objective value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `__call__(trial: optuna.Trial)`: Evaluate the objective functions and return the objective values.
```

  - Args:
    - `trial`: Optuna trial object.
  - Returns: `float`

> - `evaluate(params: dict[str, float])`: Evaluate the objective function and return the objective value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `evaluate(params: dict[str, float])`: Evaluate the objective functions and return the objective values.
```

Author: `params: dict[str, float]` is not correct for ZDT5.

  - Args:

>     - `params`: Decision variable like `{"x0": x1_value, "x1": x1_value, ..., "xn": xn_value}`. The number of parameters must be equal to `num_variables`.

Reviewer: This line must be adapted later for ZDT5.

Author: Updated.
